---
layout: post
title:  "Flexbox"
date:   2017-09-23
categories: anjali update
---

The Flexbox Layout aims at providing a more efficient way to lay out, align and distribute space among items in a container, even when their size is unknown and/or dynamic.

A flex container is declared by setting the display property of an element to either flex (rendered as a block) or inline-flex (rendered as inline).

Inside a flex container there is one or more flex items.

Properties for flex container

#flex-direction

The flex-direction property specifies the direction of the flexible items inside the flex container. The default value of flex-direction is row.

The other values are as follows:
row-reverse: right to left in ltr; left to right in rtl
column: same as row but top to bottom
column-reverse: same as row-reverse but bottom to top

#flex-wrap

The flex-wrap property specifies whether the flex items should wrap or not, if there is not enough room for them on one flex line.

The possible values are as follows:
nowrap (default): all flex items will be on one line
wrap: flex items will wrap onto multiple lines, from top to bottom.
wrap-reverse: flex items will wrap onto multiple lines from bottom to top.

#flex-flow

This is a shorthand flex-direction and flex-wrap properties, which together define the flex container's main and cross axes. Default is row nowrap.

#justify-content

The justify-content property horizontally aligns the flexible container's items when the items do not use all available space on the main-axis.

The possible values are as follows:
flex-start (default): items are packed toward the start line
flex-end: items are packed toward to end line
center: items are centered along the line
space-between: items are evenly distributed in the line; first item is on the start line, last item on the end line
space-around: items are evenly distributed in the line with equal space around them. Note that visually the spaces aren't equal, since all the items have equal space on both sides. The first item will have one unit of space against the container edge, but two units of space between the next item because that next item has its own spacing that applies.
space-evenly: items are distributed so that the spacing between any two items (and the space to the edges) is equal.

#align-items

The align-items property vertically aligns the flexible container's items when the items do not use all available space on the cross-axis.

The possible values are as follows:
flex-start: cross-start margin edge of the items is placed on the cross-start line
flex-end: cross-end margin edge of the items is placed on the cross-end line
center: items are centered in the cross-axis
baseline: items are aligned such as their baselines align
stretch (default): stretch to fill the container (still respect min-width/max-width)

#align-content

The align-content property modifies the behavior of the flex-wrap property. It is similar to align-items, but instead of aligning flex items, it aligns flex lines.

The possible values are as follows:
flex-start: lines packed to the start of the container
flex-end: lines packed to the end of the container
center: lines packed to the center of the container
space-between: lines evenly distributed; the first line is at the start of the container while the last one is at the end
space-around: lines evenly distributed with equal space around each line
stretch (default): lines stretch to take up the remaining space

Properties for flex items

#order

The order property controls the order in which they appear in the flex container. It is an integer value.

#flex-grow

It specifies what amount of the available space inside the flex container the item should take up i.e. the ability for a flex item to grow. Negative numbers are invalid.

#flex-shrink

This defines the ability for a flex item to shrink. Negative numbers are invalid.

#flex-basis

It defines the default size of an element before the remaining space is distributed.

#flex

This is the shorthand for flex-grow, flex-shrink and flex-basis combined. The second and third parameters are optional. Default is 0 1 auto.




















